2AL1_Images_as_Functions/notes.md, before:

### Notes:
- Image is a function. So for gray scal Image    
 $I(x,y) = GrayscaleValue$
- So Image processing for computer vision is mostly image like values i.e. we take one image as input and output another image.
- An Image can be 2 Dimensional arrayof numbers with some minimum and maximum fixed value as range.
- A function $I = R^2 --> R$ where $(x , y)$ pixel image and $I(x , y)$ is intensity or value at position $(x, y )$
- In practice, we define ranges for $x$ and $y$ , so it would be   
       $f : [a : b] X [c : d] --> [min , max]   
	and intensity ranges from some min value to some max value.
- In case of color images, instead of one function we would have 3 functions, one for each color channel. So for color image, function would become:  
  $I = R^2 --> R^3$
- For a Digital Image, we need,  
	- Sample : Divide the 2 Dimensional space into regular grid i.e. divide 2 Dimensional area into a single point each.
	- Quantize : Quantify each sample i.e. convert the frequency at each point to closest integer.
- Quantization is required since we cannot use continuous real values.
- In image, pixel value is represented as $(x , y)$. It means x goes horizontally while y goes vertically      
- Since image is considered as matrix in computer, $i$ represents row and $j$ represents column 
![image_details](picture1.jpg)


### Project/Code/Tutorials that can be done:
- For any given grayscale image, print a surface with x and y as coordinates and gray scale value as value.
- Write a function to convert given matrix to quantized matrix with given min and max values.([notebook](2A_L1_Image_As_Function.ipynb))
- Load and Display Dolphin.png. Print its size and datatype.

Commit message:

Updating 2AL1 till 24
Summation of 2 images.

2AL1_Images_as_Functions/notes.md, after:

### Notes:
- Image is a function. So for gray scal Image    
 $I(x,y) = GrayscaleValue$
- So Image processing for computer vision is mostly image like values i.e. we take one image as input and output another image.
- An Image can be 2 Dimensional arrayof numbers with some minimum and maximum fixed value as range.
- A function $I = R^2 --> R$ where $(x , y)$ pixel image and $I(x , y)$ is intensity or value at position $(x, y )$
- In practice, we define ranges for $x$ and $y$ , so it would be   
       $f : [a : b] X [c : d] --> [min , max]   
	and intensity ranges from some min value to some max value.
- In case of color images, instead of one function we would have 3 functions, one for each color channel. So for color image, function would become:  
  $I = R^2 --> R^3$
- For a Digital Image, we need,  
	- Sample : Divide the 2 Dimensional space into regular grid i.e. divide 2 Dimensional area into a single point each.
	- Quantize : Quantify each sample i.e. convert the frequency at each point to closest integer.
- Quantization is required since we cannot use continuous real values.
- In image, pixel value is represented as $(x , y)$. It means x goes horizontally while y goes vertically      
- Since image is considered as matrix in computer, $i$ represents row and $j$ represents column 
![image_details](picture1.jpg)
- In summation of image, we need average of both pixel values. This can be done either by first taking half values of each pixel and then adding up or summing these values and then halving them. But in second case, numbers are stored in uint8  format. So if sum is greater than 255,  it will wrapped around starting from 0 again, which changes actual result.


### Project/Code/Tutorials that can be done:
- For any given grayscale image, print a surface with x and y as coordinates and gray scale value as value.
- Write a function to convert given matrix to quantized matrix with given min and max values.([notebook](2A_L1_Image_As_Function.ipynb))
- Load and Display Dolphin.png. Print its size and datatype.
